Do you use LoggerMessageAttribute (#9541)
SSWConsulting/SSW.Rules.Content: rules/do-you-use-loggermessage-in-net.md/rule.md

---
type: rule

> title: Do you use LoggerMessage in .NET?

Reviewer: Hi @tomek-i 

- [ ] 1. Please add SEO Description (**Tip:** Look on other rules and use ChatGPT ;))

uri: do-you-use-loggermessage-in-net
authors:
  - title: Tom Iwainski
    url: https://www.ssw.com.au/people/thomas-iwainski
related: []
created: 2024-11-05T12:52:08.000Z
archivedreason: null
guid: 2feb782f-0cee-4022-95d9-f44b9f739b90
---

Logging is a critical component in modern applications, but it can easily introduce performance overhead.

> The LoggerMessage class in .NET offers a solution to reduce the performance costs associated with logging. By utilizing this pattern, developers can optimize logging with fewer object allocations and reduced overhead.

Reviewer: @tomek-i 

**Note:** If you want a new paragraph here, you need to add a line break, otherwise it will all show in 1 line

> 

Reviewer: Hi @tomek-i 

- [ ] 1. Please add missing `<!--endintro-->`

> ## Key Performance Benefits of LoggerMessage

Reviewer: Hi @tomek-i 

- [ ] 1. Can you remove Capitalization from this and all other headings 2

- Log Level (e.g., LogLevel.Information)
- Event ID (for tracking specific events)
- Message Template (a named format string with placeholders)

For example:

Each log message is represented as an Action delegate.

```csharp
private static readonly Action<ILogger, WorkItem, Exception> s_processingPriorityItem =
    LoggerMessage.Define<WorkItem>(
        LogLevel.Information,
        new EventId(1, nameof(PriorityItemProcessed)),
        "Processing priority item: {Item}");

private static readonly Action<ILogger, Exception> s_failedToProcessWorkItem = LoggerMessage.Define<Exception>(
    LogLevel.Critical,
    new EventId(13, nameof(FailedToProcessWorkItem)),
    "Epic failure processing item!");
```

This delegate is then invoked using strongly typed extension methods like PriorityItemProcessed, making it simple to log information in a structured manner with minimal performance impact.

```csharp
public static void PriorityItemProcessed(
    this ILogger logger, WorkItem workItem) =>
    s_processingPriorityItem(logger, workItem, default!);

public static void FailedToProcessWorkItem(
    this ILogger logger, Exception  ex) =>
    s_failedToProcessWorkItem(logger, ex);
```

> Usage Example:

Reviewer: @tomek-i 

- [ ] 1. Make "example" lowercase

                }
            }
            catch (Exception ex)
            {
                logger.FailedToProcessWorkItem(ex);
            }

            await Task.Delay(1_000, stoppingToken);
        }
    }
}

```

## Optimizing Further with ILogger.IsEnabled

For even better performance, you can check whether logging is enabled for a particular log level using `ILogger.IsEnabled(LogLevel)`. This check ensures that logging statements aren't called when the log level is not configured, thus avoiding unnecessary object allocations and improving efficiency.

```csharp
if (logger.IsEnabled(LogLevel.Information))
{
    logger.Information("This is a log message.");
}
```

## When to Use LoggerMessage

The LoggerMessage pattern is particularly beneficial in scenarios where logging needs to be performed frequently with minimal performance impact. It is most effective when:

- Logging is done in high-throughput scenarios (e.g., background services, real-time applications).
- You require structured logging for easier integration with advanced logging systems (e.g., Serilog, ElasticSearch).
- Reducing object allocations and computational overhead is a priority for the application.

> ## More information on LoggerMessage

Reviewer: @tomek-i 

I think you can ditch "on LoggerMessage" in this headings... "More information" is enough

> There is a great article on Microsoft Learn which goes into more detail and usage examples: <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/extensions/high-performance-logging>

Reviewer: Hey @tomek-i 

- [ ] 1. Can you try making this link descriptive (e.g. grab the title from the article)

---
seoDescription: Learn how to optimize logging in .NET applications using the LoggerMessage class. Discover the performance benefits, such as reduced object allocations and efficient message parsing, and get practical tips on how to implement this pattern for better logging efficiency and structured logs in high-performance scenarios.
type: rule
title: Do you use LoggerMessage in .NET?

> uri: do-you-use-loggermessage-in-net

Reviewer: Hi @tomek-i 

- [ ] 1. Can you make the URL shorter? E.g. Ditch the "do-you-"

Let me know if you need help with this (we can call on Teams). There are instructions in the Wiki, but basically you need to update the URL and the folder. If it was an existing rule, then a redirect would be necessary, but that is not the case.

> uri: do-you-use-loggermessage-in-net

Author: ```suggestion
uri: use-loggermessage-in-net
```

authors:
  - title: Tom Iwainski
    url: https://www.ssw.com.au/people/thomas-iwainski
related: []
created: 2024-11-05T12:52:08.000Z
archivedreason: null
guid: 2feb782f-0cee-4022-95d9-f44b9f739b90
---

Logging is a critical component in modern applications, but it can easily introduce performance overhead.

> The LoggerMessage class in .NET offers a solution to reduce the performance costs associated with logging. By utilizing this pattern, developers can optimize logging with fewer object allocations and reduced overhead.

Reviewer 2: This article should not be able the `LoggerMessage` class, but instead about Compile-time logging source generation.

Author: not sure if i understand your message, can you paraphrase or explain what you mean?

Reviewer 2: Updated. TLDR; We should talk more about the source generated logs driven by the `[LoggerMessage]` attribute.

2. **Efficient Message Parsing**: Logger extension methods parse the log message template each time a log entry is made. In contrast, LoggerMessage only parses the template once when the message is defined, leading to fewer computations and faster execution during logging.

3. **Structured Logging**: With LoggerMessage, log templates can include placeholders that are filled with specific log data, such as Item or DateTime. This makes it easier to integrate structured logging with logging frameworks like Serilog, which can enrich logs with meaningful event names.

## How to use LoggerMessage

To use the LoggerMessage pattern, you define a static Action delegate for logging a message. The LoggerMessage.Define method is used to create these delegates with parameters such as:

- Log Level (e.g., LogLevel.Information)
- Event ID (for tracking specific events)
- Message Template (a named format string with placeholders)

For example:

Each log message is represented as an Action delegate.

```csharp

> private static readonly Action<ILogger, WorkItem, Exception> s_processingPriorityItem =

Reviewer 2: These examples aren't right. Have a look at this documentation:

https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/extensions/logger-message-generator

You need to use the `[LoggerMessage]` attribute, for the source generators to work.

You should also mention that source generators are what makes this work so well.

Author: Ok, seems we were talking about 2 different things?

https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/extensions/high-performance-logging

Reviewer 2: The source generated loggers generate logger messages under the hood (I think, but you may need to double check).

I think we should be directly developers to use the source generated logs that should gain all the perf benefits of the Logger message stuff you mention in the rule.

```

This delegate is then invoked using strongly typed extension methods like PriorityItemProcessed, making it simple to log information in a structured manner with minimal performance impact.

```csharp
public static void PriorityItemProcessed(
    this ILogger logger, WorkItem workItem) =>
    s_processingPriorityItem(logger, workItem, default!);

public static void FailedToProcessWorkItem(
    this ILogger logger, Exception  ex) =>
    s_failedToProcessWorkItem(logger, ex);
```

Usage example:

```csharp
protected override async Task ExecuteAsync(
    CancellationToken stoppingToken)
{
    using (IDisposable? scope = logger.ProcessingWorkScope(DateTime.Now))
    {
        while (!stoppingToken.IsCancellationRequested)
        {
            try
            {
                WorkItem? nextItem = priorityQueue.ProcessNextHighestPriority();

                if (nextItem is not null)
                {
                    logger.PriorityItemProcessed(nextItem);
                }
            }
            catch (Exception ex)
            {
                logger.FailedToProcessWorkItem(ex);
            }

            await Task.Delay(1_000, stoppingToken);
        }
    }
}

```

> ## Optimizing further with ILogger.IsEnabled

Reviewer 2: Double check, but I think the code generated by the logger message templates does this for you.

Reviewer 2: @tomek-i - did you look into this?

For even better performance, you can check whether logging is enabled for a particular log level using `ILogger.IsEnabled(LogLevel)`. This check ensures that logging statements aren't called when the log level is not configured, thus avoiding unnecessary object allocations and improving efficiency.

```csharp
if (logger.IsEnabled(LogLevel.Information))
{
    logger.Information("This is a log message.");
}
```

## When to use LoggerMessage

The LoggerMessage pattern is particularly beneficial in scenarios where logging needs to be performed frequently with minimal performance impact. It is most effective when:

> - Logging is done in high-throughput scenarios (e.g., background services, real-time applications).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Logging is done in high-throughput scenarios (e.g., background services, real-time applications)
```

> - You require structured logging for easier integration with advanced logging systems (e.g., Serilog, ElasticSearch).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You require structured logging for easier integration with advanced logging systems (e.g., Serilog, ElasticSearch)
```

> - Reducing object allocations and computational overhead is a priority for the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Reducing object allocations and computational overhead is a priority for the application
```

## More information

> There is a great article on Microsoft Learn which goes into more detail and usage examples: [High-performance logging in .NET](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/extensions/high-performance-logging)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See this great article on Microsoft Learn which goes into more detail and usage examples: [High-performance logging in .NET](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/extensions/high-performance-logging).
```
